All right guys so now we're gonna jump into flex blocks and if you don't understand everything in this
first video here don't worry about it.
We're gonna be building an entire project an entire Web site using FLAC.
So things are gonna come to you as we go.
But I'm just going to use the CSF sandbox that we've been using.
I'm going to create a file called 16 underscore flex underscore basics dot h t AML okay and we'll put
in our boiler plate for our title we'll save flex basics and let's put in our style tags now for the
body.
I'm going to have a div I'm just gonna give it an idea of container and then let's do a div with the
class of item we're going to have a couple of these.
So for the content inside the item I want to have an h three K we're just using Emmet here.
I'm gonna say item money sign which will be an incremented number and then I think that's it.
So let's go ahead and hit I actually wanted two times three and then tab or enter and it will give us
three divs class item and then h 3s.
So if I save this and we take a look it's open with live server you'll see we just have our our divs
here and I just want to style the items so for a class item let's just say background light grey we'll
do a border of light grey and padding we'll say one room let's text aligned to the center and that should
be good.
And now we have some styling for each one here.
Now remember what I said when we if we say display flex for this item here and for this element it becomes
a flex container and then everything all the direct children which are these divs are going to become
flex items which we can lay out horizontally or vertically in a column.
So let's take that container and let's add a display property with a value of flex and as soon as I
save.
Notice what happens.
They get aligned horizontally.
K. so basically doing what like a float does with just this one line and it doesn't matter if these
don't have classes it doesn't matter if these are divs or list elements or I'm sorry list items it doesn't
matter anything that's a direct child of this flex item or this flex container I should say is a flex
item and we'll automatically get put into a row.
Now we can have flex items go this way in a column by setting flex direction to column.
And if I save that now it goes back to a column and it's still a flex box we can still use the alignment
classes and stuff that I'm going to show you in the next video but I want to keep this arrow so I'm
just going to comment that out and I'm going to put this to Roe which is basically the same thing is
not putting it at all because Roe is default.
Oh actually I want to show you we can also do row reverse and if I save that notice that now three is
the first one and they also get aligned over here and then yes you can do row reverse as well but we're
going to stick to Roe.
Now we can set specific widths to these if we want using flex basis in fact we're going to do that in
the next video.
But for the most part you're going to want your your horizontal items to go all the way across.
OK.
Regardless of which one takes up you know whatever amount of space you want them to go all the way across
the container which in our case is the whole browser window.
So what I'm going to do is set on on the item here I'm going to set flex 1 and save OK.
And what that's going to do is it's going to make them all equal and it doesn't matter how I size the
browser they're always going to be equal.
So you can see how easy this is.
After doing the floats remember we did the flow we did the with whatever I think we did like thirty
thirty two point three percent and then we had to set the box sizing so that the with the padding didn't
add to the width we had to clear them and it's just it's just a pain the height you have to add a height
when you do the floats.
This makes things so so much easier.
And I know that it's another thing to learn but once you start using flex in the grid you you don't
use float.
Now aside from this course just to teach you guys I haven't used float in years.
So let's say we wanted to do like a main area in a sidebar we didn't want them to be all equal so let's
actually just take two of them.
And even if we have to if they're set to flex one they're going to be equal.
But what I'll do is I'll take the first one which I could give a custom class if I wanted to but what
I'm going to do is use this pseudo selector first child.
So going to say item colon first first child and that's going to select the first item and I'm going
to set that flex property to two.
OK so this first one has a flex of two and then the second one has flex of one.
So let's save that.
And now you'll see that this has more space.
OK so easy way to set up a main area in a sidebar and it's going to stay like that no matter what.
OK.
If we wanted it to be even bigger we could say Flex Three and save and it gets even bigger.
OK but I'm going to put this let's just put this back to one.
Yeah we'll just do that.
So let's see what else we want to show you guys in this video.
If we wanted some margin because right now you can see there they're basically stuck to each other.
So we could add margin to the item as well.
So if I say margin let's do zero point seven five RAM and save and we get our margin let's put the third
one back.
OK.
So no matter what.
And now I can keep bringing I can keep bringing in more.
Let's put that in it's just everything just works.
It just aligns how it should.
Now we do have a property called flex wrap because once you hit twelve it's gonna do one of two things
it's going to keep it's going to go off the screen and you'll have a scroll bar or it'll wrap onto the
next line.
So what we have here one two three four five six seven eight.
So let's do nine 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 and let's save.
So notice now we have a scroll bar because it's not going to put more than 12 on the screen but if we
wanted to wrap onto the next line we could go to our container and we could add a property of flax wrap
and we could set that to wrap.
OK so we have we have no wrap.
We have wrap.
We have wrapper verse which we just reverse some and save and I can see they go on to the next slide.
All right.
So and you can see.
So it's pretty cool and think of it.
Think of if we did like an image gallery or something you know it makes things much easier than having
to float these clear them deal with the heights deal with you know all the crap that goes into floating
the widths.
So yeah it makes things much easier.
So another thing that we can do.
I'm trying to think of all the properties I want to display here we have flex flow which is basically
a shortcut for the direction and the wrap.
OK.
So instead of putting both of these we could do flex flow and we could say we want a row and we want
it to wrap.
So that's the same as these two so if I comment these two out and save we get the same thing.
If I wanted to change this to let's say no wrap and save now I can see there's no wrap.
All right but I don't I personally don't usually use flex flow.
I don't usually use wrap because I don't have in most cases I won't have more than twelve flex items.
All right.
So let's see I think that's it.
Yeah.
So in the next video I'm going to show you how we can work with the alignment properties like justify
content a line items and stuff like that which are very useful if you know you don't have them spanning
across the whole the whole parent container.
All right so we'll get into alignment next.